# OCHA Basic starter theme

A minimal starter theme for OCHA sites.

## What this theme provides:

* Common Header
* Common Footer
* Grid (simplified version of Bootstrap v4 grid, https://v4-alpha.getbootstrap.com/layout/overview/)
* Typography
* Mixins for clearfix, REM font sizes and media queries
* Variables for breakpoints, colours, font-sizes, fonts, measurements and z-index
* Icons
* Basic table styles
* Basic form styles
* Favicons and manifest file
* Sass
* Autoprefixer
* Modernizr
* Bootstrap dropdowns (requires jQuery 1.9.1 or higher)
* that's it!

## Getting started

1. Copy this theme into your sites/all/themes/custom folder
2. If you want to renamne the theme, change the folder name, the filename of the .info file and find and replace for `ocha_basic` in the theme folder.
3. In the theme folder:
4. Install the dependencies: `npm install`
5. Run the default Grunt task to build the CSS: `grunt`
6. In the Drupal Admin, go to Appearance, find 'OCHA Basic Starter Theme' (or whatever you've renamed it to), and select 'Enable and set default'

## CSS

This project uses [Sass](http://sass-lang.com/).

To make changes edit the .scss files in the /sass folder, do not edit the files in /css directly.

Run `grunt watch` in the theme folder to have grunt watch for changes and automatically rebuild the CSS.

Preferably use Jenkins to run the Grunt task on build to generate the CSS. If this is possible on your project, add the css folder to the gitignore file and delete generated CSS from the repo.

## JS

Javascript files should be added to /js and to the scripts section of ocha_basic.info

## Icons

This site uses the OCHA icon set as an icon font.

Initially it includes only `arrow-down` and `search` icons.

Follow the instructions at https://un-ocha.github.io/styleguide/icons/ to add more icons to the set.

## Logo

Two versions of your logo are required, in SVG format with PNG for fallback.

1. Mobile version: 40x40px

2. Desktop version: height 60px, width will depend on your logo design

## Browser support

IE9+

TO DO: Add media query support to Modernizr and fix styles for IE8

## Favicons & manifest.json

OCHA favicons are provided, plus a manifest.json file. Update these with your logo and site details.

http://realfavicongenerator.net/ is a good tool for generating these.

## Modernizr

The Modernizr file is generated by Grunt. By default it detects flexbox and svg support. Add further detects needed to the Grunt file.

## Using with panels

Use with the Omega base theme to enable panels:

* Add `base theme = omega` to ocha_basic.info
* Create your layouts using page.tpl.php as a basis

## Styleguide

See https://un-ocha.github.io/styleguide/ocha/ for documentation and examples of the styles used.
